=head1 NAME

ebnf2annot.pl,ebnf2first.pl,ebnf2html.pl,ebnf2list.pl,ebnf2lit.pl - EBNF Tools


=head1 SYNOPSIS

source /config/ebnf.cshrc (csh)
. /config/ebnf.bash       (bash)

ebnf2annot.pl ebnf.txt > ebnf.html

ebnf2first.pl ebnf.txt > ebnf.html

ebnf2html.pl  ebnf.txt > ebnf.html

ebnf2list.pl  ebnf.txt > ebnf.list

ebnf2lit.pl   ebnf.txt > ebnf.lit


=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<ebnf2annot.pl>,B<ebnf2first.pl>,B<ebnf2html.pl> create html representations of
EBNF descriptions given in text format.

B<ebnf2list.pl>,B<ebnf2lit.pl> are provided for debugging purposes only.

=over 16

=item B<ebnf2annot.pl>

creates a full-blown html description of the ebnf file. The html file
includes all productions, all literals, all terminals, a crossref,
annotation of lookahead-one ambiguities

=item B<ebnf2first.pl>

creates a reduced html description of the ebnf file. The html file
includes the start tokens per production.

=item B<ebnf2html.pl>

creates a html description of the ebnf file. The html file is the same as
the one created by B<ebnf2annot> without the annotated ambiguities.

=back


=head1 OPTIONS

None.

=head1 ERRORS

The tools are written in perl5. Since the C<-w> switch is on, you may get
messages like "Use of uninitialized value in...". This is usually the case
when you run the tools without file argument.

Other errors are related to file access violations, e.g., wrong file name.

A third category of error are EBNF syntax errors, e.g., missing '.' at the
end of a production.

All the errors (maybe except the first category errors) are self explaining
and one should be able to resolve them without problem ;-)

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Possible exit status values:

=over 8

=item Exit == 0

Successful completion

=item Exit != 0

An error occured (e.g., "No such file or directory").

=back


=head1 FILE FORMAT

	# a comment starts with a '#' and ends with
	# the end-of-line character
	file    : { prod } .
	prod    : lhs ":" expr "." .
	lhs     : NAME .
	expr    : term { "|" term } .
	term    : factor { factor } .
	factor  : TERMINAL
		| LITERAL
		| [ '<' ATTR '>' ] NAME
		| "[" expr "]"			# optional expressions
		| "{" expr "}"			# 0... expressions
		| "(" expr ")"			# grouped expression
		| "(+" NAME expr ")"    	# named expr (V2)
		.



	NAME	 is defined by the following regexp: [a-zA-Z0-9_]+ .
	TERMINAL is defined as UPPERCASE name.
	LITERAL  is a string enclosed in single quotes or double quotes.


=head1 EXAMPLES

ebnf2annot.pl vhdl.txt > vhdl.html


=head1 SEE ALSO

perl

=head1 BUGS

No known bugs so far ;-)

=head1 COPYRIGHT

    This toolset is Copyright (c) 2000-2003 by Andreas Gieriet.
    This toolset is released under the same license as Perl itself.
    See the Perl README for details.

=head1 AUTHOR

Andreas Gieriet (andreas.gieriet@externsoft.ch)

